# JackCoin: <a href="http://jackcoin.herokuapp.com">jackcoin.herokuapp.com</a>
## Project for Fullstack Academy Hackathon

> A lightweight implementation of core bitcoin concepts using the MEAN stack, socket.io, and Web Workers

### Why I made JackCoin -
At Fullstack we were given 2 and a half days and a weekend to make a project about whatever we wanted. I was interested in Bitcoin, but didn't understand how they actually worked, and decided that making my own emulation of Bitcoin would help me to learn as much as I could about them in the short time I had.

### How it works -
Users can make "transactions" with other users by sending them JackCoin. These transactions will not be processed until other browsers that have "mined" a block that contains that transaction. Browsers can begin mining by going to the mining tab and clicking the initialize mining button. This will set up socket.io event listeners that will receive the current state of the BlockChain (i.e. previously mined and accepted blocks containing previous transactions) and all new and pending transactions. A mining browser will assign a Web Worker to "solve" the hash for a new block containing new transactions, at a difficulty (represented by number of 0s at the front of an acceptable hash), and will send its solved block to the server which will validate the hash, check if any transactions have already been accepted and that the previous block's header used in this new block is the current last block on the server's BlockChain, and ultimately "accept" the new block by adding it to the BlockChain and broadcasting the new block's header as the new latest block on the BlockChain. The user who mined the block is also credited 50 JackCoin. Once a transaction has been accepted, users can go to their profile and see that they either have more or fewer JackCoin associated with their account. All JackCoin a user has in their wallet are the output of previous transactions that go to their public address and have not been spent yet. User's must send the entire output of a previous transaction, but can send "change" back to themselves to "spend" later.
